This repository contains the scripts used to generate the main results in Figures 1 and 2 in the paper "Quantum Converse Symmetry Breaking".

The data for Figure 1a was produced using spin_r_vs_delta_gpu_parallel.py. To run this one needs an Nvidia GPU that supports the cudatoolkit package. If one wishes to create
a new environment, the following command should install all dependencies: "conda create -n csb_env python numpy matplotlib scipy mpi4py numba cudatoolkit cupy". You will also need to
run "pip install qutip" in the environment. If you are having troubles with cupy, be sure to check the version of cudatoolkit is compatible with the current software version running on your GPU.

The script spin_r_vs_delta_gpu_parallel.py creates an empty 100x100 grid called r_vals, each of which has an address in the format [i,j]. Each address is converted into a single integer number
using job_address = i * 100 + j. All 10,000 job_addresses are then distributed equally among all availble processes, each of which is assumed to have access to a unique GPU.
Upon recieving their assigned job_addresses, each process will calculate the steady state of Eq. 4, with the only change between each job_address being the entries of the 
coupling matrix C defined in Eq. 6. Matrix C depends on the values of delta_one and delta_two, which in turn are calculated using
"delta_one = i*(delta_max-delta_min)/num_points + delta_min" and likewise using j for delta_two. Once all job_addresses are complete, the empty r_vals grid is filled and a plot
is created. Note that if the job does not complete before an external time limit, the values of r can be printed to r_vals_output to save progress. This way upon restarting,
all previously calculated r_vals can be reloaded and the simulation will resume where it left off. Finally, be sure to save the states generated by spin_r_vs_delta_gpu_parallel.py
in scipy sparse matrix format to use later in pairwise_quantum_plotter.py.

The scipt semiclassical_spin_stochastic.py uses the stochastic differential equation defined in Eq. 8 in the main text to approximate the exact quantum dynamics of the master
equation in Eq. 4 and give the data for Figure 1b. Similar to spin_r_vs_delta_gpu_parallel.py, this script also will fill an 100x100 r_val grid. This time however,
the parallelzation is done by mpi instead of python. This is to allow multi-node computing if used on a large cluster. To run the script, one will need to use the command
"mpiexec -n NUMBER_OF_PROCESSES python semiclassical_spin_stochastic.py". This script also has the option to calculate the quantities fond in Fig. INSERT which can be toggled with
the boolean variable calculate_pairwise_vals. All quantities will be saved to csv files to be plotted separately at the end of the script.

Finally, the script pairwise_quantum_plotter.py takes the .npz files containing the density matricies from spin_r_vs_delta_gpu_parallel.py to generate the data and create the
plots shown in Figure 3. You will want all the npz files in the same folder, and have them named "steady_state_{}_{}_{}.npz" where the brackets are filled in with the spin
quantum number, the row, and the column of each steady state in the 100x100 grid. The script will then loop through the .npz files and calculate the pairwise r values as well
as the relative phase \Phi_{ij} defined in Eq. 9. Once all of these quantities have been found, a plot in the style of Fig. 3 will be generated.
